ISO/IEC 11179
===============

DDI-L reflects ISO/IEC 11179 structure in several respects. First, it
maps the core structures Concept, Universe, ConceptualVariable, and
RepresentedVariable to the ISO/IEC 11179 Data Element Classification
Structure. The structure presented in DDI 3.2 aligns with the
representation of this ISO standard through the GSIM structure. (See
GSIM discussion within this section).

Secondly, DDI-L has adopted the combination of the Agency, ID, and
Version as the full unique identification of an object. This is
reflected in the identification model and content of the DDI URN.
Finally, DDI-L has incorporated the ISO/IEC 11179-5 structure of
providing a Name, Label, and Description for all primary objects
(maintainable and versionable) that are not considered publication
structures. Publication structures have complete citation information
plus an abstract. The objects with this common descriptive set are those
that are commonly managed with registries over time.

This standard describes the structure and content of a data element as
the basic building block of information. DDI -L is particularly
concerned with providing the information needed to populate an ISO/IEC
11179 data element and support a registry structure. The following
diagram provides the Data Element Structure.

**Figure 1.  ISO11179 Data Element Structure**

.. |figure1| image:: ../images/iso_1179_data_element_structure.png

|figure1|

International Standard ISO/IEC 11179-1: Information technology –
Specification and standardization of data elements – Part 1: Framework
for the specification and standardization of data elements Technologies
de l’informatin – Spécifiction et normalization des elements de données
– Partie 1: Cadre pout la specification et la normalization des elements
de données. First edition 1999-12-01 (p26)
https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/6233/c002349_ISO_IEC_11179-1_1999%28E%29.pdf

In DDI terminology, the Object Class is defined by the universe, its
Property is the concept, and the Representation is the Representation
content used by the Variable that measures it.

ConceptualComponent contains Universe and Concept definitions while
Representation is described within the Variable. In most DDI instances
it is the Variable that ties the three sections of this definition
together. Note that if the Variable does not include a concept reference
the instance is not compliant with ISO/IEC 11179.

DDI 3.2 has added the ability to create the more abstract (or reusable)
descriptions of an ISO/IEC 11179 Data Element and Data Element Concept.
These have been structured to align with the GSIM description (see GSIM
in this section). The 3.1 element DataElementConcept has been replaced
by a ConceptualVariable located within ConceptualComponent. This object
links a Concept with a Universe creating the equivalent of the ISO/IEC
11179 Data Element Concept. A RepresentedVariable located in Logical
Product, adds the expression of the representation to the concept and
universe. This is the reusable set of information for a Variable which
is the implementation of a RepresentedVariable within a specific usage.
The underlying RepresentedVariable may be referenced from the Variable.